# How the World Wide Web works
Web pages are compiled of pages of text.  A group of Web pages on the same computer is known as a website.  With every website there are hypertext links that takes the user to another part of the website when you click on one of them.  In the earlier days of the computer, it was difficult for them to communicate with other computers since they were mostly incompatible.  Things began to change in the 1980's as computers began to look and work in more similar ways.  Microsoft then created "IBM-compatible" computers that ran the same programs.  However, there was stil the problem of getting computers to all speak the same language.  This was fixed by an English computer scientist by the name of Tim Berners-Lee who worked at CERN.  He used ASCII or American Standard Code for Information Interchange, also known as "plain text."  Tim used ASCII to create two protocols and if all the computers at CERN followed those two protocols, they could easily exchange information within one another.  These two protocols were HTTP and HTML.  HTTP stands for HyperText Transfer Protocol and this allows two computers to "talk" to each other.  One computer called a client runs the web browser and asks the other computer called a server for information.  The browser requests for information while the server attempts to find the information.  In order for the computers to all speak the same language, Tim created HTML or HyperText Markup Language.  It was based on ASCII, but uses special codes called tags.  Berners-Lee also suggested a way of having each webpage identify themselves.  With that he created a URL, or Uniform Resource Locator.  With the URL, it allows the computer where to find the correct page.
